The biblatex package is a complete reimplementation of the
bibliographic facilities provided by LaTeX in conjunction with
BibTeX. It redesigns the way in which LaTeX interacts with
BibTeX at a fairly fundamental level. With biblatex, BibTeX is
only used to sort the bibliography and to generate labels.
Instead of being implemented in BibTeX's style files, the
formatting of the bibliography is entirely controlled by TeX
macros. Good working knowledge in LaTeX should be sufficient to
design new bibliography and citation styles -- there is no need
to learn BibTeX's postfix stack language. Just like the
bibliography styles, all citation commands may be freely
(re)defined. The package needs e-TeX, and uses the author's
etoolbox package. Apart from the features unique to biblatex,
the package also incorporates core features of the following
packages: babelbib, bibtopic, bibunits, chapterbib, cite,
inlinebib, mlbib, multibib, splitbib. There are also some
conceptual parallels to the natbib and amsrefs packages. The
biblatex package supports split bibliographies, multiple
bibliographies within one document, and separate lists of
bibliographic shorthands. Bibliographies may be subdivided into
parts (by chapter, by section, etc.) and/or segmented by topics
(by type, by keyword, etc.). The package is fully localized and
can interface with the babel package.
