MonTeX provides Mongolian and Manju support for the TeX/LaTeX
community. Mongolian is a language spoken in North East Asia,
namely Mongolia and the Inner Mongol Autonomous Region of
China. Today, it is written in an extended Cyrillic alphabet in
Mongolia whereas the Uighur writing continues to be in use in
Inner Mongolia, though it is also, legally speaking, the
official writing system of Mongolia. Manju is another language
of North East Asia, belonging to the Tungusic branch of the
Altaic languages. Though it is hardly spoken nowadays, it
survives in written form as Manju was the native language of
the rulers of the Qing dynasty (1644-1911) in China. Large
quantities of documents of the Imperial Archives survive, as
well as some of the finest dictionaries ever compiled in Asia,
like the Pentaglot, a dictionary comprising Manju, Tibetan,
Mongolian, Uighur and Chinese. MonTeX provides all necessary
characters for writing standard Mongolian in Cyrillic and
Classical (aka Traditional or Uighur) writing, and Manju as
well as transliterated Tibetan texts, for which purpose a
number of additional characters was created. In MonTeX, both
Mongolian and Manju are entered in romanized form. The
retransliteration (from Latin input to Mongolian and Manju
output) is completely realized in TeX/Metafont so that no
external preprocessor is required. Please note that most of the
enhanced functions of MonTeX require a working e-LaTeX
environment. This is especially true when compiling documents
with Mongolian or Manju as the main document language. It is
recommended to choose pdfelatex as the resulting PDF files are
truly portable. Vertical text generated by MonTeX is not
supported in DVI.
