The TeX-GYRE bundle consists of six font families: The TeX Gyre
Adventor family of fonts is based on the URW Gothic L family
(designed by Herb Lubalin and Tom Carnase). The TeX Gyre Bonum
family of fonts is based on the URW Bookman L family (designed
by Alexander Phemister). TeX Gyre Chorus is a font derived from
handwritten letterforms of the Italian Renaissance. It was
designed by Hermann Zapf (ITC Zapf Chancery, 1979; currently,
other variants of this typeface are available). TeX Gyre Chorus
is based on the URW Chancery L Medium Italic font, but heavily
extended. The Vietnamese and Cyrillic characters were added by
Han The Thanh and Valek Filippov, respectively. The TeX Gyre
Heros family of fonts is based on the URW Nimbus Sans L
(prepared by Max Miedinger, with Eduard Hoffmann). The TeX Gyre
Pagella family of fonts is based on the URW Palladio L family
(designed by Hermann Zapf). The TeX Gyre Schola family of fonts
is based on the URW Century Schoolbook L family (designed by
Morris Fuller Benton). The TeX Gyre Termes is based on the URW
Nimbus Roman No9 L family (designed by Stanley Morison together
with Starling Burgess and Victor Lardent). The constituent
standard faces of each family have been greatly extended, and
contain nearly 1200 glyphs each (though Chorus omits Greek
support, has no small-caps family and has approximately 900
glyphs). Each family is available in Adobe Type 1 and Open Type
formats, and LaTeX support (for use with a variety of
encodings) is provided. Vietnamese and Cyrillic characters were
added by Han The Thanh and Valek Filippov, respectively.
